# Architecture

### Modified PoW
The architecture of the blockchain revolves around altered version of the traditional PoW (Proof of Work) consensus algorithm. One major change is made to the existing method to increase the efficiency and lower the power usage of the network. Instead of a block's difficulty being calculated based on the speed of the network, it is calculated based on the speed **of the miner that is mining it**. In this way, a miner with more hashing power will gain only a small benefit over a miner with less hashing power. If a block is found more quickly, the next one will be more difficult to mine, and the speed will balance out (for the most part). However, the target time, on average 1 minute, does vary based on your mining rate- a higher mining rate means a lower target time. The lowest target time is 30 seconds and the highest 1 minute 30 seconds, so there's no substantial benefit from mining faster, but there's still a little. It's important to encourage miners to contribute more computing power to the network, even if you don't provide a large benefit. This method will strengthen the network while also increasing decentralization and efficiency. The difficulty calculations are made each block for every miner on the network, so attempting to "trick" the difficulty calculations is not possible. However, without further modification, this approach is impossible to enforce. As miners may create an arbitrary amount of public/private key pairs, they may bypass the difficulty adjustment feature and create a new key pair for every block they mine. To prevent unlimited key pairs from being generated, this blockchain sets a maximum miner limit that increases with the number of blocks in the blockchain. This ensures that unlimited miners cannot be created.

### Time Verification
To ensure miners are honest about the time it took them to mine a block, each block must be signed by at least 1/5 of the miners in the network. These nodes are called the 'time verifiers'. This proccess occurs twice for every block. First, the time verifiers ensure that the block began to be mined within a 10 second range of the current time (when their verification was requested). This ensures nodes joining the network mid-block will have their difficulties correctly calcualted. Then they ensure that the current time is less than 10 seconds after the time the miner claimed to have finished mining. If the miner says it took longer than it actually did to mine a block, the time verifiers will see that the finishing time is in the future and refuse to sign the block. If the miner attempts to wait before sending it to a time verifier, they will most likely lose the block before it is sent. This system creates a history of blocks with verified timestamps, ensuring the honesty of miners and their mining times, and preventing miners from manipulating block difficulty.

### Maximum block size
To enable high speeds and throughput of the network, the maximum size of each block is at a maximum 10 MB. Combining this with the 30 sec-1 min 30 sec block time, the network has a theoretical throughput 100x that of Bitcoin. The high maximum block size and the short block times are the two primary reasons behind the scalability of the network and blockchain.
